and introduction to the book of Habakkuk.
Habakkuk served as a prophet in Judah.
From the book's closing notation
to the director with my stringed instruments,
it has been inferred that Habakkuk may have been a temple musician.
He wrote the book, bearing his name of about 628 BCE,
some 20 years before the destruction of Jerusalem.
He was a contemporary of Jeremiah, who also served in Judah.
The book of Habakkuk has three chapters.
Chapters 1 and 2 present a dialogue between Habakkuk and Jehovah.
The prophet expresses dismay over the violence, oppression,
and injustice that are prevalent in Judah.
Jehovah declares that soon the Caldeans will be used to punish the nation of Judah.
Jehovah assures Habakkuk that this divine judgment on Judah will not be late,
and that the Caldeans will also be punished later for their own acts of cruelty and wickedness.
Did you know?
In Habakkuk's day, Jehovah's Temple was in Jerusalem,
and the Davidic dynasty had ruled uninterrupted from there for over four centuries.
Therefore, to the Jews back then,
God's allowing the Caldeans to destroy the Holy City was unthinkable.
Chapter 3 is a prayer of Habakkuk that is expressed in songs of mourning.
Habakkuk recalls past manifestations of Jehovah's power.
Although distressed by the conditions around him,
the prophet expresses confidence in Jehovah.
Habakkuk declares,
As for me, I will exalt in Jehovah.
I will be joyful in the God of my salvation.
As you read Habakkuk, note how Jehovah is not indifferent to the suffering of his servants.
How our confidence in Jehovah's salvation helps us endure with joy,
and how Jehovah's judgments by means of his kingdom will not be late.